Speaker 1  0:00  
So the kind of zone where I guess the events of overlap quite a few years, maybe 10 or more is dealing with a mobilization of technology in government sort of problem solving and all kinds of where that takes us. And my interest in this comes from reserve for converging things in my own background will probably explain what I know but also maybe my own biases and gaps. So I've spent some of my life working top down in governments. I started my career working in the city government in London. I still do a lot with cities around the world. I've worked in national government, including running strategy here in the UK and setting up strategy teams in Australia and elsewhere, and in the European Commission as well and I'm currently chair I think the European Union on having been full of government innovation having to get all your ministries and agencies aligned on something like net zero or or AR. So that's my kind of top down seeing like a state kind of life and then the other end of the spectrum is much bottom up. So I've been an activist and campaigner. I set up quite a few social enterprises and charities and I'm very involved in the kind of social innovation world where people want to make a change. Often from positions of no problem at all. And then in between the two. I've run foundations including the National Endowment for science, technology, the arts here in the UK, and now work as an academic. And all of that's kind of like my fourth strand which kind of pull these together as I had an undergraduate degree in politics, philosophy and economics, which was kind of interesting, but I realized quite soon was missing out a huge amount about how the world works. So I went to MIT and I did a PhD in telecommunications and networks. And I think that embedded in my way, I see the world the kind of network perspective seeing everything in terms of many things in terms of flows of information and data and knowledge, and not just how networks can be used positively but also how networks can be used negatively how people use them to communicate or to block or to mislead as well as to to inform. And so the unifying thing which is analytics, mobilize all the kinds of intelligence which might be relevant to to running a city or solving a problem like mental health, when equality or carbon emissions or or food waste and, and all these different angles in a way come together around around that question. And what interests me is that, in a way, I think we still as a world don't have a way of organizing that intelligence, either within universities, where this task is separated between lots of different disciplines, from public administration, to computer science, to economics, to psychology, but also within institutions like governments where you not only have your silos have separate departments for health or housing, energy or defense, and you also have separate silos of the people who do the data. The people who do the evidence and the research the people who do you know, maybe an interaction with with the front line or the people doing foresight and scenarios, and people doing modeling, they tend to be different tribes. And they often don't work, work together. So I become more and more interested in how we create both new integrative synthetic sort of theories, ways of thinking about the world. And a practice that does that well within cities or nations or at a global scale, and within the universities, some way of mirroring that. And one of the many reasons I'm interested in northeastern is I became slightly obsessed about 10 years ago, with whether universities could flip their model on its head and be much more challenged, driven. And I wrote a number of things on challenge driven University look like. We're starting off with big problems and work backwards to what the relevant bodies of knowledge or discipline or method would be for solving that and I work quite a bit with the then head of gy University in China who was very keen on this approach. And with a number here in in Europe, tried to see if you could flip on its head the the classic disciplinary push model of the university, everyone based around challenges and that's why Yeah, northeast and obviously that's kind of mainstream for you, but it's still pretty unusual in universities. I was last week in Cardiff in Wales here where I helped design what they call the social science part, which is trying to do that in a university context about 800 people now in one building, some from the government side from the city, from different university departments or NGOs and the theory is they then start working together on the big trashy challenges of Wales, which is a small country three and a half million people. But the thought was you needed some new structure, to bring all of those things together and to create a way of working which wasn't trapped by the old disciplinary boundaries. And this is even more important when we have things like GPT for our array of tools, which can be used for problem solving, organizing evidence or understanding that have a huge risk of being misused. So I think I'll just give briefly four or five sort of live examples of where I think this becomes real. And the sort of tasks which might be an interesting one for a new Northeastern centre, London or anywhere else. So the first is a is a project I did last year, but I'm trying to continue when we simply look at the pandemic what happened in 2021, two and three, around the world as societies tried to organize their intelligence to cope with COVID-19 and we didn't just look at how they looked at infections and epidemiological models. Of spread, but also how they organize knowledge about economic effects, or mental ill health effects or the effects on school kids locked down or locked out of their schools for months on end or for all people in residential homes who were not allowed to socialize. And annoying this was an extraordinary is a real life experiment for the world. Because to do this, well, you had to Mongo as a lot of data, you had to mobilize a lot of models to predict infection patterns. But you also needed to combine that with organized creativity. And problem solving for protective equipment or developing a vaccine or whatever else it may be. And a huge amount of knowledge was tacit knowledge in the heads of teachers or, or social workers or doctors and nurses. And so we did this exercise try and look at both what was done in everywhere from Taiwan and Singapore and China and Korea to the US and Estonia, Germany and Britain. But perhaps more importantly, what what shouldn't be done or what could be done in the future. And I think everyone has struggled a bit with this task, there was far more power and away in the hands of classic medical knowledge and medical data, and medical evidence and other fields like mental health work were really badly ignored, and many particularly young people paid a high price for that. So that's sort of one example of where a more holistic and integrative view of intelligence is potentially relevant. Another is around net zero. So all over the world, every government every city has some kind of plan for achieving net zero by 2035, or 2040. And again, this is a massively complex task. That to do well, you have to think in these many dimensions and once you certainly need a lot of data and one of the fascinating things in most countries is the key data on, for example, energy use in the room you're in. Or the remaining, that data is owned by the electricity company. It isn't shared. You can't be used for training machine for machine learning. It can't be used for a city to coordinate itself. And the same is true actually the knowledge about what you could do to retrofit a building or to change your local energy supply or to shift a new transport modes often this is very poorly organized, poorly connected. Together. And I've been working with a number of governments this year, like published a number of things about how we can, in a sense, create the intelligence infrastructure needed for this fundamental transition in our our economy, and our society and it definitely isn't there yet. Anyway, and it requires you to think systemically to map all the interactions of

Speaker 1  10:01  
actions and results, knowledge and uncertainty. To me it's absolutely fascinating task, but strangely in most places, there still isn't much interaction between the data people in computer science people on the one hand and the people who really know about energy or know about behavior on the other so it's a kind of it's a field which is quite frustrating, and is missing some of the key the key knowledge, the key, key joints. On a much more kind of mundane note. I'm fascinated by and maybe we're living this now, the sights of meetings. We all spend enormous amounts of time in meetings. A few years ago, I tried to look at it, what's the science of meetings? What are we learned about how you get them the maximum the collective intelligence, other words meeting and it could be an academic conference, it could be a parliament or Congress in the US or it could be a board in a business and it turns out there is no very little Mr. Pie in practice. And as a result, although there is a lot of experiment with obviously the use of zoom in teens and beginnings of the use of AI in meetings to organize are given to the bait or to push groups to consensus. These are dramatically under used. And one of my sort of epiphany moments was about five years ago going around talking to people in what they're supposed to be the top universities of the world like Harvard and MIT and Oxford or Cambridge. And I asked the people there, what science do you use to guide your design meetings as a university, you're holding them all the time? And essentially, none of them can give an answer to that question. They just did meetings the way they've always done. And it seemed to me not really good enough in the 21st century, and I suspect it's us in like northeast it will be far more more dynamic and far more on the money in terms of making the most of new science but also new tools, new hybrid tools for for organizing meetings. And the final thing, which I hope might be an area of interest for the Northeast, and perhaps for some work in London is and work on what I call institutional or organizational architecture. How do you design a new organization, a new institution to a new public institution? What's the theory to help you what are the tools? What are the what are the lessons from from history? And in the US, I think many people feel for a generation or two, they haven't actually met the big new public institutions. There was a period when there was a huge confidence about creating NASA or DARPA or Medicare and so on. And there hasn't been that much in the last 20 or 30 years. The same is true in my country in the UK, where we had some great institutional designs like the BBC. National Health Services are much less recently. The same is true globally. You know, you have the United Nations World Bank created in the 1940s. A few more recent examples, like IPCC was created in the late 80s, but in recent times, not much institutional design. And I think this has left us with huge gaps where we actually need public power. We need the capabilities of government, not just in relation to things like climate change or global refugee populations. Or issues like population level mental health, and of course, the regulation and governance of AI, which is a dramatic institutional gap. So let me try to work on your what might be the, the theories, the concepts, the practice to help us design institutions partly to fit the tasks of 2020s will also again to make the most use of technologies and AI and algorithms transform, what you can do in terms of organizational design. You can allocate tasks they can organize say, you know, creative processes across a whole organization in completely novel ways that we're lacking, you know, centers of deep thought about how that should be done that can then link into the practice of a city or a state government or a nation, or maybe a foundation that wants to create new institutions that are fit for purpose for our era. When often people find the inherited institutions don't quite fit our values, they don't quite fit the spirit of the times. And we call this sort of a working title, the institutional architecture lab, Thiel trying to link a bunch of very practical projects around the world with some sort of theory some understanding of what the options are. And here again, the digital world is paradoxical. On the one hand, with Blockchain in particular platforms 20 years ago, huge innovation in organizational forms, and some very creative thinking about how the organized quadratic voting or dowels and so on, but very little connection of that two bodies of knowledge about what's been learned about what works and what doesn't in institutions. And as a result, many of them fail or achieve patterns very different from what they're, perhaps their creators have intended. So this is, in a way a sort of subset of this broader question of how do we organize intelligence in the 21st century? Maybe it's the finish there, in some ways what what I guess I tried to do partly because of my background is, is flip things on on its head. So we have all sorts of programs which start with a technology which could be AI, or blockchain or data or mobile and then see how they can be used. I think it's often more productive to turn it the other way. around for what we need. And how can lots of different kinds of technology and method help us achieve them to assemble them in novel ways, which are really useful, and pretty much everything I've talked about in the last 20 minutes or so it's really about assembly. It's about smart assembly, have multiple pieces. And that's kind of obvious. If you're creating let's say, an electric vehicle, electric car. You're putting together your chassis, your wheels, your engine, your LiDAR, and they're all quite different from each other. But you've got to integrate them together into something. And pretty much the same is true if you're trying to create a new institution or to solve a complex problem. You have to think with this assembly mindset which knows its modules. Its modular elements very well but also knows how to fit them together. I think that's what we need your next 2030 years as people who are really good at that, and have that mix of depth of knowledge of technology, creativity, but also a sense of thinking in in systems. And all of that requires us to break a lot of the walls down you obviously we're both in rooms with warps, literally break the walls down metaphorically. I think a lot of our institutions, a lot of our universities are trapped in walls, which no longer serve as well. So I don't I could go on for all day. But I hope that gives you a flavor of both. I guess some of the things I'm working on but but also maybe there's some of the maybe the spirit of inquiry, which which intrigues me and I think is very much in sync with a lot of what you guys do.

Speaker 2  18:18  
Let's open it up to questions, comments, discussion.

Speaker 1  18:24  
And then let's just say one of the things so out of the work, I do our collective intelligence and our agenda on it. One of the things I'm very keen on is argument. And often I think we get to the best ideas or the best solutions through disagree. So I'm very happy I've even encouraged you to challenge me to disagree with things I've said. That's often how we get a better, better ideas. Don't be shy, be rude if you want would like to be rude first.

Unknown Speaker  19:01  
Ask a question. Is he gonna be able to hear well, can you hear me?

Unknown Speaker  19:07  
Just about if you could shout. Yeah, just go closer.

Unknown Speaker  19:11  
Okay, introduce yourself.

Unknown Speaker  19:13  
Hi, I'm Laura for Londo professor in

Unknown Speaker  19:17  
just one second. sight

Unknown Speaker  19:23  
loss is making

Speaker 3  19:30  
So hi, I'm more of a Professor of Art and Design and felt the burn center. And this question about you know, sort of technology leading or organizational model thinking is really interesting. And I guess the specific question I have is really about how do you motivate people within institutions to move away from kind of mini hierarchies like little fiefdom and towards actual lateral collaboration because what I've observed in universities and everybody knows this is that like, people in the senior level, or like senior faculty mostly collaborate through their students, and through you know, your teams that can collaborate, but there isn't much ability to collaborate laterally because of resources, incentives and all sorts of things. So, and just as an aside, you know, one of the I got my start looking at Community wireless networks back in like the mid 2000s. And the ways those were creating new kinds of organizational forms and vice versa. So I've been interested in this question for a long time. And I'm wondering, from your perspective, you know, how might we create those kind of incentives for more hierarchical kinds of networks and institutions?

Speaker 1  20:57  
So maybe, I mean to two sets of answers, one, since you're from a school of Art and Design, just to say that's the other thing I could have talked about, which I'm very keen on. And I actually wrote a book. This came from Cambridge university press about the role of art in social change. And it was trying to encourage anyone involved in everything from a climate, any project to a qualities project. What could be taken from the different arts visual film design architecture, it's all to help think and imagine in novel ways. And so it's a quite a short book, so we weren't read that it's been interesting, because everyone says how difficult it is to do that in university contexts. In kind of city change context, in some ways, it's easier to bring in the artists or the designers to create installations and use that as a prompt for a different kind of conversation than including in my university to operationalize this and so to get to the heart of your question, I guess there's kind of, there's three main things you can do and this is probably true of almost any, any institution you can you can use hierarchy, you can basically order people to collaborate. And in the example I mentioned in China, that was where the president of the university very powerful guy basically ordered disciplinary heads to work together on these cross cutting synthetic problem solving projects and in a very hierarchical organization, people do you know, to some extent do what they're told. You can then use money. And some of the best research projects I've been involved in came from the European Union, the European Commission, which often would fund things that forced again, you had to show you add people from the eight different countries in your consortium, they had to next disciplines and although that was often a bit painful, a bit cosmetic, a bit unreal, people over time get to know each other, they start working together, they develop a kind of common common language and that could be quite, quite powerful. And a lot of the sort of interesting projects in data in Europe came out of that kind of approach. And then of course, you've got an enthusiasm, that people want to do it organically and it's sort of bottom up, which in some ways is the best that but if it's only enthusiasm, it tends to get crushed. By the force of hierarchy and money and, and incentives. So to my mind, you know, in an ideal academic institution, you mobilize all three of those in tandem, the hierarchical push, you gotta have some incentives. You don't get funding unless you can show your you're able to work sometimes in a cross disciplinary Cross. Cross agency way, but there's plenty of space for people to get to know each other to get to trust each other to evolve common languages. And there's a final point, I think nearly all of those, I would love to see more integration of the Arts and Design in that process, because often, they just open up and this is partly what my book is about. It's not so much that the arts can tell us what a society could be. Like in 20 years time or 50 years time. But by exploration, I call it working at a tangent rather than add on. They can help us to feel those what are some of the dynamics of a world that much more ubiquitous AI might be like where we have been much more conscious of energy and material flows and waste. And then after that, you can get into a quite different kind of perhaps more traditional academic or policy conversation, but nothing substitutes for the role of the arts and thus helping us think and see and feel in a different way. It's not all cognitive.

Speaker 4  25:18  
Thank you so much, Jeff. This is a Nida. I wanted to ask you what you're most worried about and implementing this agenda.

Unknown Speaker  25:33  
Maybe that broke up.

Speaker 4  25:38  
Sorry, Jeff. Hi, it's Nina. It's great to see you. Thank you for everything. I want to just be what you're most worried about implementing this agenda. What do you think? Is going to be the most difficult or hardest thing to accomplish?

Speaker 1  25:58  
I think I've worked around toucans for a long time. I'm still a little bit repeatedly astonished of inertia of just how

Speaker 1  26:20  
I'm able to resist failure, able to resist change with remarkable success. I was just had a chat this morning here with an economist who was still bemoaning the fact that even though in 2007, eight, you know, the head of the Federal Reserve said all of our theories have just collapsed. They just be disproved. And yet 15 years old, all the same theories are basically being taught in universities, the same people are in post. No one lost their job answers but almost no one lost their job as a result of what happened. So I think the old silos have incredible staying power. Even when it's obvious to lots of lots of people, they're no longer fit for purpose. So that's one fear that just having better models, better methods, better insights on its own isn't enough. And then we have the other huge force of just distraction. In a way it's what happens every day in social media, and in our politics. The ability of our societies to kind of ignore the really fundamental issues and challenges and problems again is immense. And you know, our own natures are part of the problem here. We're all easily distracted by what's shiny, or what seems urgent or quick. And, and that takes us away from what's important. which is a kind of distraction, which maybe I won't talk about. Yeah, the ability even of the smartest people to struggle to recognize what is really fundamental, and what is ephemeral. is ephemeral. that sounds very depressing, isn't it? But that's, that's, I guess that's what I see around around the world. the baby. It's very difficult to

Speaker 2  28:49  
get up here. So don't worry, we are relentlessly optimistic group. I think. So this is maybe an impossible question to ask, but we're about to enter the last hour of our conversation after you after two days of thinking about what is the role of the center so what can a century so obviously there's a broader topic here about the role of the university and reorienting the university around social impact work that's happening here in terms of no more disciplinary hiring, no more hiring by departments. Everybody's hired around a problem. You know, reorienting, how the university spends money, we got to hear you know, more of this and how it's going yesterday. But we've been having some conversations about what where we should be what we should be doing as a center, given the fact that we're an agglomeration of very passionate individuals working in disparate fields, all of whom are interested in social impact and social change. We have a core set of methodologies, all of which are participatory and use technology. But we're very interested in what you're talking about in terms of the assembly mindset. And bringing that to bear on a

Unknown Speaker  30:04  
crit problem solving.

Unknown Speaker  30:06  
And so let me end the

Speaker 2  30:07  
question instead of making this amount of love. But, you know, we have a charge put to us about making change happen in the world with a deep focus on implementation. So actually getting stuff done. So from where we're sitting and now you're sitting back in a university. What's your sense of the one two or three things that we should be doing or the two or three things we should not be trying to do not be doing?

Speaker 1  30:36  
So I don't have a good answer. for that. But they will share a conversation I was having just before joining you, which was with the colleagues I'm looking at institutional design and architecture with because we've been away asking a version of exactly that question. On the one hand, and maybe this is one of the things I probably should have said one stream of work I'm very interested in is how we, how we do imagination, how we think beyond today's options, we can think 1020 30 years into the future. How could we run democracy or a city or a health system or care and I think that's one of the things which has been squeezed out of both our politics and our universities in the last generation or two, with really severe consequences. And I think one of the potentials you have with this extraordinary array of both an ethos of people and capabilities is to be really good at that kind of deep imaginative work and what would a truly zero carbon economy look like? Or a society which really had reduced population mental illness to an absolute minimum? That if that, in a sense, you have to do that as a portfolio, and we were thinking that maybe there's sort of three buckets you have to keep in in in parallel, if you want to be both imaginative, but also practical. And impactful. And those three are, sometimes you need to do purely speculative work. And you don't really know when it might be implemented, when it might be practical. It might be 10 years, it might be 20 years, it might be 30 years. You got a second category where you weren't responsive, perhaps with you know, a city as almost a client for or a foundation or a government or a big NGO or a private company. And that's quite useful because it forces you constantly to make sure you are being useful you are tuned to the real problems of organizations in the present and sometimes you can be very prescriptive, again, even when it's not quite clear, who would act on your prescription but by making a prescription, you create, hopefully, the energy which makes it doable. And I think your challenge and is exactly what I share is how you get the balance between being rooted in free trade, trade presents real partners, clients who need things. So how do you avoid that? And is that squeezing out your space of imagination, but have you also avoided some imaginative so long term that actually you're not being practical or impactful? And I think if you can keep these sort of buckets in balance, you never know in advance what topic may suddenly move from appears very speculative and very long term, that something may happen. Like a pandemic or actually the GPT for to crisis is a good example was mean suddenly in the last year or two there's massive demand for AI governance ideas. were six or seven years ago when I wrote a bunch of things on AI governance, no one wanted them. There was no demand and that seemed entirely speculative. So I think it's important to keep all of those in play. And I guess in your in each individual mind, as well as the center's must be constantly moving between the now and the future. The the practical and the imaginative, but with sufficiently defined ideas and clusters of ideas that when suddenly, the environment changes, you're ready to take one of your speculative ideas and offer it to the head of a Washington Department or something and say, Hey, we've got this ready. Why don't you implement it? Because you could, you could never know and Milton Friedman, who may not be the favorite economist of everyone in your room, but he has this wonderful paragraph he didn't want to say it say about your part of our job is to ensure that we have this body of options ready. So that when suddenly, conditions change, what was once impossible now becomes necessary. And I see that as part of the task of a center like like yours, and that is fuel that I think by constantly keeping your ear to the ground your feet to the ground, being fueled by practice, but not constrained too much by the needs of the President. I don't know what do you think what's your answer, but

Speaker 2  35:26  
I think Neil has a question for you. It saves me from having to answer the question. At least not in this hour in the next hour. I don't know if this is the spot. Daisy,

Speaker 5  35:38  
we met through Jimi Hendrix years and years ago, thanks so much for joining us how to work more together. So I have a question. That's a bit of an extension of what Pat was saying. So as you know, here at Northeastern, I think we're starting to put it into practice a lot of what you're saying we're breaking down walls. We're not hiring by discipline. We have various disciplines and colleges working together in splendid new ways. We have to burn center, but love her university. And although and I was just talking to Provost about this yesterday, we're in a category aren't really yours and others to see who's doing things by the way. We are moving fast here, and it's wonderful to see it. But my question is, this is all built on a sphere of collaboration, as you said with Indians, because we are in the field of higher ed, we're competitive. So it's not as though we think about collaboration outside the institution. Although we've grown so much. And we now have campuses, of course in London and Oakland in Miami. So my question is, as we continue to grow this effort of collaboration, should it be within the institution of Northeastern, or should we intentionally begin looking for other collaborative partners, universities, maybe around the world, or with the national government or others to be a part of this experiment with us?

Speaker 1  37:07  
I have absolutely no idea what the right question is. And, you know, always with collaboration, there's there's an advantage. You can spread your ideas, you can pull in their resources, you can do more, but there's also transaction costs. And there's always an EU an inverted U shaped collaborative collaboration where you can get benefits from doing some more than add too much. You dissipate or clarity you spend all your time in, in meetings. So I don't really have a feel for for that. The one thing I was going to suggest which which might be relevant to how your way embedding what you're already doing, which is far ahead of what's happening in the universe design that is what is the linking method? How do you create tools which help to connect the disparate bits together and maybe share for two minutes you know, some of what I'm doing at the moment here mainly in in UCL, but also with some other universities in the UK. So this is around net zero. As I mentioned, you know, this question, how do we get carbon out of our homes, our transport, our energy, etc. And we're trying to develop these sort of systems, mapping methods, which create a way of linking together all these different disciplines, from the housing people, the building specialists, the psychologist, the data people, the economists and so on, but in quite a formal way. So you're trying to literally map all the system influences on something like home choices on energy. You try to overlay that again in a systematic way. What do we know? What are the evidence say? Wherever the ambiguities whether the emerging innovations, you try to layer on top of that kind of power picture who's got the power to change each bit? And I think if you did that, right, it creates a kind of, you know, a linking structure, a mental model, which allows you to be multidisciplinary but also coherent, but it's, you know, it's quite hard to do. And what's fascinating for me in the university, I mean, we've only joined three years ago, is it had no methods of doing that no one had there were various multidisciplinary projects, but there wasn't as aware of a transdisciplinary integrative method. And I think maybe, almost this is a bit of an answer to your question. Maybe if you can develop some of those integrative methods. Is it easier to see how another university might plug in or city government might plug into that? Whereas if there aren't some of those common methods, it just becomes very, very labor intensive trying to mobilize and manage so many different relationships. And perhaps I'll turn this into a question perhaps back to you. So I'm delighted this week at the global gathering of people's, which is this new company model as of several 1000 companies around the world are trying to adopt this new approach where you embed social and environmental impact into the working of the company. And then one of the questions they're grappling with is what should we their partnership structures, with governments or universities or businesses? Most of those organizations want to be collaborators in some novel way, but they don't already know how to do it. And they're fearful that partnerships will all be very greenwashing, very cosmetic, not very deep. And I think one of the questions perhaps I'm throwing to you, but in a way in which to then you then throw back at a major existing company or a B Corp is, is what would you want out of them? How could they be partners in ways which really deep and impactful rather than cosmetic, are they good? Frameworks, models methods for doing that really well, man? Yeah, I was gonna we were

Speaker 5  41:16  
talking about this earlier, because we're exploring how Northeastern could be more helpful to the local governments and the communities in which it's now growing and expanding into. So I would just offer up some of it is just simply clarifying what our priorities are, what are the priorities that we're trying to accomplish, and have that codified somehow in some type of compact or agreement that you feel comfortable being transparent about, and then you revisit it in some periodic fashion and there's some mechanism for those for the key stakeholders to come together in periodic way.

Speaker 1  41:51  
Exactly. And so one thing which I did at one point in London and we're trying to revive this other cities is in a more formal way for the different governments of the city to set out what are their problems, what are their needs, and then to in a codified way, set out the research capabilities of the universities, and then do matchmaking some of it online. Some of it through meetings, is kind of not rocket science, but it doesn't seem to happen in cities. Around the World in a very systematic way.

Speaker 2  42:29  
You should also feel free to ask Jeff about work projects or other things that you're working on. I'm sure he'd like to know what you're up to as well. So you shouldn't hesitate. He knows a lot about a lot of things. Can I ask you a quick question?

Speaker 4  42:43  
You can and then we'll see. You know about Chris. Sorry, Jeff. I want to make sure you know about Chris Mark was he just moved to Cambridge. He's just written a book on the course. Chris Mark was AR qu is happy to introduce you. And we just did a big study on network, which is the world's largest deep work, where it's working on Amazon, and how local governments really didn't want it there. And it pushed through using its B Corp status to develop these people's relationships with communities in tribal Amazon prevents the harvesting of the trees for exploitation against the wishes of local government. So there's this kind of complexity about the court status that needs to get developed and understood better. So super excited to hear about your work on that. That's a fantastic

Speaker 1  43:34  
example. I met Natura in Sao Paulo just as they are becoming a vehicle. But I didn't know about that. So I need to read it before Thursday. Thank you.

Speaker 6  43:45  
Jeff. I don't know if if I'm not sure if this is wholly aligned with Neil's question or input but for the B Corp discussion is I don't know how to align like their reporting frameworks or the kind of metrics that they align their certifications who are playspace as opposed to just you know, like, carbon emission drawdown type metrics. So I mean, maybe it is what Neil was saying just about aligning businesses to local priorities as opposed to national or multinational international frameworks could be an interesting way to kind of accelerate or embrace business to a local community and a local set of challenges. Yeah,

Speaker 1  44:43  
that's a really good point. My understanding is you got a lot of you get going back to maybe Net Zero Moment companies for their own net zero reporting, which they do global scale often. And then you'll have completely different recording at a city scale or regional or national one. And there wasn't much across correlation between the two. So that was a repeating thing. Charts are bullshit, basically. And one of the interesting things the EU is now doing is introducing new sort of border controls on carbon content of products, which is forcing much more rigor on the measurement just this is just on carbon and other things. That my guess is this. I opened this up actually going to the courts because it's a great question, how much is there? A place a spatial dimension for the recording? I think very little.

Unknown Speaker  45:41  
And I think this is more

Speaker 7  45:43  
of a quandary is that for this entity called innovate us refers with six different US states years and states to basically support them and creating and disseminating share professional development for public sector workers around digital innovations. And we just got a bunch of fantastic new funding in the door. And so some of the time we spent yesterday was around thinking about where we've been and where we're headed and in thinking a bit more about our focus areas, cohorts, we want to begin reading so what about today, while you're at work, get your cake and eat your wealth of experience.

Speaker 1  46:32  
Fantastic. Well, I'd love to hear where you've got to on that. I'm quite often pulled into curriculum design questions both. In fact, there was quite a new School of Government in the US. Just yesterday, someone was asking me about that. Well, you know, and maybe it's a question to throw back to you with one of my academic colleagues GEICO Scott Page from Michigan. We were talking this yesterday, as he was in London, about whether what's actually needed. This may apply to students but also to government people. Is Does anyone do it two or three day really crash course on all the AI based tools you can be using for synthesizing evidence generating options as it may be, you can achieve more in a really fast two or three days with them, coaching essentially, a lot of classic public administration teaching, you're probably already doing that. I think you're very

Speaker 7  47:34  
timely. We're about tomorrow to release the first set, first module line. For this audience, but kind of exactly that line of thinking, where we are headed and have a course on Nui recently funded so we'd love to continue that conversation.

Speaker 1  47:56  
Yeah, and I thought was probably the best thing. You would take a very live current topic and get them to work through all the different ways they could save time and mobilize resources to answer it, which they won't get anywhere else. They definitely won't be getting back inside their institution or anywhere else I suspect at the moment and in color is quite hard to do purely through YouTube videos. And so you do need a little bit of someone to take you through it. And Jeff, can I ask you with the last few minutes

Speaker 2  48:28  
because we also have a program here on labor and economic justice to say a little bit about some of your work in the labor space? That you've done over the years?

Speaker 1  48:40  
Yes, one of the ones I'm working on at the moment, which Beth knows about and to build on work from few years ago at the moment with Bangladesh on labor markets, data and navigation tools. And so the essence the exam question there is how can I help society or a city help its people know as much as they can, what jobs are going to grow, what they're going to disappear, what skills will be needed, what won't be needed, and to use that both to guide what colleges are doing but what employers are doing but also if you're a 50 year old, or in school, or you're a 50 year old who's lost their job to help you navigate through, and what we've just done is a sort of a scan of the different approaches globally. And there's a lot of them some of the US Canada, Australia Singapore had particularly advanced methods, but no was quite turned it into a really comprehensive system. And so the question then is how you know how within any country and obviously the answers for Bangladesh, which has a lot of garment workers, furniture, workers and so on, they will be different from those in in Germany or Oregon. And how do you both organize now you're forecasting your full site or your scenarios, capability and the EU, for example, as a huge exercise run out of Thessaloniki in Greece for the whole of Europe. How do you do that? How best do you link that to self assessment tools? Again, linked to different cognitive styles at different ages? And how do you organize what a probably has conversations as much as anything to help teachers in schools, people running apprenticeship programs, etc, to to act in this knowledge? So they're actually you know, teaching for 10 years time not teaching for 10 years into the past. And this is such a universal problem everywhere. I regularly do sessions in the UK with secondary schools on this and I'm still kind of horrified that I'm the only you know, they haven't had any of this moment from their school. They're probably going to be blunt, clueless about the world ahead of them. So any any ideas you have on that good examples, as it's, it's, although with my prime focus, the next month or two is Bangladesh. This is a universal challenge for pretty much everyone.

Speaker 2  51:24  
You want to ask any follow ups you're just standing at work or organizing who want to any last questions, comments from our end?

Speaker 1  51:38  
I mean, just on that so many, endless forecasts or generative AI effects on jobs coming out? The no one knows what's true or not. So it's very hard to forget that we've got to have some picture, albeit updated all the time about what's going to what's around around the corner. It's still the dominant forecast in the Europe and the US are still a few skill shortages at the end of this decade. I don't know if that's your expectation, but the dominant forecast will expect counter intuitively, you will have even more severe skill shortages than now. Okay, I think

Speaker 2  52:21  
given the late hour, we everybody I think we were sorry not to have you here in person and we hope to make that up in the fall. And we will plan our next get together right when you can be with us. We help you. Why don't you as a last thing Tell us before we go one last word on the carnation and the new theme from the sublime to the ridiculous what's the most ridiculous thing that happened? This week? And then we'll wish you goodbye.

Speaker 1  52:55  
much about the coronation was completely ridiculous and clearly that's what people want ridiculousness of anointing with oil and bizarre, you know, 1000 year old rituals and the weird thing is to be slightly fair to him in the past. He's He's set up various institutions which are quite good work on things like jobs and young people and on on climate change. And the question some of us, you know, I know many of the people around him are trying to ask is How could you use an extraordinary convening power, who has now in a progressive way? To be fair to him I've done all the criticisms that have been in the past he used is slightly less a convening power as a prince to do quite a lot of good on many, many fronts, often against sort of mainstream opinion, and not just on psychological issues, but also on youth unemployment and skills and so on. And no one quite knows how far you can go as a kid, if any of you got bullied. the

Unknown Speaker  54:04  
very center Buckingham Palace

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
