Speaker 1  0:00  
Okay initially at the applications, so I'll talk a little bit more about about the process, but those are two big first they seem like small things, but it was a sea change, sea change to a certain extent. And for this to go through governance we filled with there. We talked about how this would be a degree considered for an applicant provided an existing PhD at Northeastern. And so that conversation we have through the governance process is in part why we handle admissions. I can already see how things evolve. i The idea of having a PhD, and I'm not going to use the word program because there's a technical term on the program and that has requirements, degrees and diplomas at the end. So I'll describe it as a cohort. Out of the very center is excited and maybe 80% of them are pursuing a PhD and maybe for what you're doing there might be a student doing a PhD in policy or a PhD in network science. As part of as part of this. Yeah,

Speaker 2  1:22  
just a quick clarification is the interdisciplinary and design PhD seen as part of this interdisciplinary pitchy or that

Speaker 1  1:30  
I apologize, that's our newest one, and I left that off my foot when I gave the list that wasn't a comprehensive list with candy does have an interdisciplinary

Unknown Speaker  1:42  
fair was their state approval for the interdisciplinary

Unknown Speaker  1:44  
PhD.

Speaker 1  1:47  
We were private school. So the state doesn't oversee our degree programs. Our degree, we have process every 10 years we go through an assessment with net G, which has a new name for higher ed. Oh, that is that is the new names. Okay. So it's the New England Higher Education Commission, and we do this every 10 years. They don't approve our degree programs. They ensure we have a good process to create approve, and evaluate our learning outcomes. So the so with that context, a someone pursuing an interdisciplinary PhD could be nurtured in one of three ways. It could be initiated by the student it could be initiated by an individual faculty member, and we've already had both of those happen. Or it could be initiated by a group, like an institute. So the and I had a similar meeting up in Portland with the room who's looking at something as well. So the let's just look at a student applying. The first step is a preliminary application, in part because of what we talked about through governance that the students should not be a good fit for an existing program, that preliminary application question. What is it that you want to

Unknown Speaker  3:23  
pursue

Speaker 1  3:23  
a PhD and what's your research, actually asking for a research statement in addition to a personal statement, and, and a series of questions that the graduate group looks at to determine is there another degree program out there is this person a good fit? People think characteristics that they're looking at are really needing fields across colleges, really, a demonstrated ability to work independently. And so we've had questions, should a student have a master's degree to be considered for this? As approved in the catalog, we have a bachelor's entry and a Master's entry. But the graduate group is asking under what conditions would we take someone straight out of an undergraduate program do we want them to do a master's in something and have you consider this program to the VA, if it's viewed deemed that they're not a good fit for an existing program, and there's chunks then we identify faculty because a person might be interested in working with and they go around. And then second step is revise the research statement based on conversations with the faculty. Because at the end of the day, that decision to reach out to the faculty and looking at before and after research statement as an indicator, you know, how is this person able to work independently have conversations evolved that thinking, I don't need the right answer. They don't need their ultimate research proposal, but they need to be able to evolve and thinking based on this conversation so that's, that's the process going in the, the students, so I'll set that aside on process but something that I find very exciting when I hear back talk about do we do a PhD, a birds PhD is something that we're talking about. As and I'll just say, Team PHP, with the contract so many things based on everybody. I say team PHP, I mean, much more than collaboration. Teams have interdependency to really be able to make progress in something and rely on the output or another piece of expertise that pushes things together. I can see the burn center burns Institute as being an incredible ecosystem for this type, this type of thing. It does raise questions as what is done if you're now talking about a team project, where for the team to reach a goal, a threshold needs everybody. Then what's what does being finished with the PhD mean for each individual? So certainly things like that need to be thought about, but I could see the interdisciplinary PhD component of that. So I'll stop there.

Speaker 3  6:19  
Can I just ask you to give one clarification that I've heard you give, which is the difference between this as a research PhD and a professional position?

Speaker 1  6:28  
The professional doctorate professional doctorate sorry, yes, yeah. So before the questions so the I don't remember the exact conversation you and I had, but I didn't have a way to describe the relationship of the two. And I know there won't be opinions because every time I shared this idea that the doctorate is the highest level of education in a particular field. The PhD is the research doctorate. The other the, there are many other doctorates. The doctor of medicine is the one that we see, really the Doctor of dentistry that we look forward to see they're all professional doctorates or clinical doctorates. Both are the highest level of knowledge in their fields, the professional doctorate is pushing HIPAA who understands the state of the practice and is early in the first in in delivering the state of the practice and learning how to do that. The doctor philosophy is finding new knowledge and extending the state the state of knowledge. So both together, both work together and push forward. So this is an interdisciplinary PhD. So it's a research expanding knowledge did I you want to add to that?

Speaker 3  7:50  
We'll see what questions people have or comments. Yeah. I just wanted to to explain that this is a research PhD.

Speaker 1  7:57  
Practice, practice. What's the funding model? Good question. So it varies. It really depends. Depends on the setting. We we admit all of our PhD students on continuous funding. So any student we need to see how it's working for them for five years. Now how depends. We have a number of experiential PhD programs. One that has been very popular will have close to 100 students in it next year, is an industry PhD program. So I'm saying program I should say pathway. It's not a it's not a separate degree. We have 80 Right now I expect it to be over 100 Next year PhD students who are doing research in an area that is similar to how they to what they're doing in their workplace. So they enroll as a full time student under what we've established as an educational partnership with the students employer, and that student day job is research. But what they're doing here, and they are advised by a northeastern faculty member, and someone, maybe not their supervisor, who's capable of advising a research at their, at their employee from their employer and their CO advisors. They can enroll in any number, any of our 36 Different PhDs, including the interdisciplinary PhD is and they have to be the catalog requirements. So there's nothing yeah go ahead. Thank you very much for answering these questions. Is the degree conferred by the Provost Office?

Unknown Speaker  9:41  
For your for the interdisciplinary

Speaker 1  9:45  
Yes, so the provost is the chief academic officer so with the the conformance technically the Registrar's Office confers all degrees. I see so the colleges go through a process to demonstrate that students have met the degree requirements but it's really through the Registrar's Office, which is centralized and the diploma would be a Northy I mean, if you mean you know, an engineering PhD would come on a deployment that says College of Engineering. This will come on at the moment that says Northeastern University. Thank you. Yeah,

Speaker 4  10:19  
I was just going to highlight we heard Provost Madigan yesterday talked about the growth of hiring interdisciplinary faculty and I think you've got the wind at your back right now. When we look at undergrad and combined majors and just the majority of students looking to combine undergraduate majors and then the growth in the system and you mentioned route but that ecosystem where you've got data scientists and project managers and life science folks just colliding on a very intimate basis, they naturally start wanting to collaborate. And so

Speaker 1  10:54  
yeah, this is early, it's not ready for airtime yet, but I've had a network science student doing some network analysis on the structure of our PhD committees and there is a clear correlation with the interdisciplinarity of a committee just all the different places committees come from, and if their primary advisor has a joint, yeah. So maybe that's obvious, but it's, it's we see, we see it and we see that in the data other ways students, students can be funded. Grants for teaching assistantships and fellowships. So and it's there's a lot of work going into making all those pieces fit, but there aren't many pathways to getting that.

Speaker 2  11:42  
Are there any employer sponsored more than one student or where you've seen more than once?

Speaker 1  11:49  
Yes, yeah. Yes. So we have across all of our experiential PhD

Unknown Speaker  11:54  
partnerships

Speaker 1  11:57  
70 articulated agreements and that's been over the last three years. So we execute between 15 and 20 new agreements a year. Most of them and life sciences, we have cracked the pharma sector. We have and I think a piece of that is because they value the research right and in a way, there are many they have a mini academic model. In these labs, I will say that we have our first our first interdisciplinary PhD student is an engineer power engineer by training, and is looking at energy transition at the intersection of policy Economics and Business Innovation. And he's come in you met him. He's coming from industry, and so he's employed by Schneider Electric. So it's not exclusively pharma, but it certainly has been very sticky. And we would love we have one partner that had we have, I think, 12 to 15 students from them. We would love to build up these cohorts with partners. And start to create community across the areas as well as a partner, but it's a new way of thinking about how we mentor students how we do seminars.

Unknown Speaker  13:22  
I think the collaborative

Speaker 2  13:23  
idea for PhD is really exciting, and I do know a team of researchers that did something like that at Aalto university, but ultimately had to go to publish their own dissertations, but they basically collaborate on the entire research from beginning to end and they just got a $6 million grant from the government as a professor because they know each other so well in research so I think that's really promising. And then the other aspect that I think could be really exciting is can't are there possibilities for outputs that are not only written?

Speaker 1  13:57  
Well, I, I asked, Why did they have to be chained to participation because there's a hole somewhere that says it? Yeah. So we can ask why do we need that? Well, because it's really about the outcome that we're looking at.

Speaker 3  14:13  
Like you see a model of federal agency wanting to support a cohort of interdisciplinary PhDs or to kneel a city agency wanting to do something.

Unknown Speaker  14:29  
I'm hoping we'll kind of jump in

Speaker 5  14:36  
I guess like from a government perspective, as we were talking about before in terms of different cultures, I just wonder, like the timeframe so long to getting a PhD. And let's say that we're really aligned with a particular part of government that's looking at long term planning and projects.

Speaker 3  14:54  
But let me interrupt you for a second just to say the project's In other words, because what that I mean, it's sort of a question like, you're talking about the dissertation, which could take many years, but I'm seeing this as are asking the question, is this a way to create an ongoing longer term talent pool for us to do projects together, and where the requirements of the dissertation could be in the way that some disciplines have you write multiple articles, rather than a longer dissertation could be doing, you know, various forms of project work that might can culminate in a big written thing, but the written things in other words, they could end up working on in your urban lab idea on projects. With cities writing up those but and that would become the PhD. And the three

Speaker 1  15:40  
are thinking about the economic three essay model right, the three polishes, the three essays wouldn't have some synthesis.

Speaker 6  15:50  
There's the Eagleton fellows and then since they're the two miles I can think of that are somewhat similar both in New Jersey with which is Eagleton which is Rutgers, does, like experiential. I think it's only one year where they send PhD students into policy spaces for a year and then bring them back into their PhD. And then since he's students in the nation service, which is through Princeton, which does two years of a federal rotation, and then returns them to their degree. So

Speaker 7  16:27  
you'd have to be dealing with institutions that have a lot of PhDs and will look are looking for a pipeline of additional PhDs and don't have obvious existing feeder sources. So pick the buffalo Labor Department. Most of the Labor Department doesn't hire p if they hire PhDs. It's coincidental. It's not by design. The Bureau of Labor Statistics has a lot of agents dop, DARPA, those, the other science agencies, HHS, they do it but the question that I would have and this is a question for interdisciplinary PhD generally is what are they what do they offer that the existing PhD programs in for example for the BLS are getting to choose in economics or statistics or data analysis or that kind of a thing? That is very job specific. So to get any of those agencies involved, there has to be something in it for them. And what's in it for them is the pipeline of folks who can approve things that their existing pipelines don't provide for me, I guess in some number of places, this is probably most likely to be true in DOD and the intelligence agency space is there's just not enough skilled, qualified, trained people coming through to do the very idiosyncratic sets of things that they need, like NIH, they have an endless supply of people available to them. Maybe not the most elite out there. I mean, there's just a huge pipeline. So I think you'd have to, you'd have to really think it through but if you think about HUD know love and respect for HUD, they're not hiring PhDs. Even the education department is not really hired. I mean, if they hire PhDs, because they are people that eat, they're probably eating. So So I think it's that's one of the things if we want that to be a big component of what we're doing, we're really going to have to think through mapping, what is the pathway and that's the big that's where you started or who started getting right came in, is where do they end up? Where are they heading? What do they bring that other folks that what is the value proposition of interdisciplinarity Other than that, we all love it. And we all work in interdisciplinary way. What's my proposition for prospective PhD employers not made Northeastern University which is now hiring, interdisciplinary PhDs to teach that is the exceptional, unique case in higher ed.

Speaker 1  19:09  
I love the system's approach that you put to us. And we have Bureau boards of Bureau boards with value proposition across different stakeholders, more related to what we're calling experience a PhD, then interdisciplinary PhD, but, you know, we're not taking away the deep learning there is deep learning. What we're adding is something I think that there is a clear value proposition to the world. It's a matter of finding the language and the meeting of the minds because people need to recognize they need to come from that space, as you said, but it's really it's giving people the context that they're going to be doing their research. And I think we can all agree that that context is not happening when you spend your time in a research group. And so the military is where I've seen a lot of PhD.

Speaker 7  20:11  
I agree with what you said, your mirror also, if you think about the federal government, they're the entity that are spending the most on training not just a uniformed personnel but also civilian personnel. They think in a much more sophisticated way about human capital issues of the military and paramilitary organizations. Those are not necessarily the kinds of folks who are going to come through the kind of interdisciplinary program that the birds this guy can connect to imagine the look on his face when we say hey, we're gonna train people to be senior officials in the military.

Unknown Speaker  20:49  
I mean, there's a precedent.

Speaker 1  20:52  
We have done no marketing, with the exception of putting old tile on our website next to all the other PhDs that we've probably gotten.

Speaker 1  21:05  
With some thinking about how does a group want to and why do you set an interdisciplinary PhD instead of a PhD? in Economics? Because you want the flexibility? I'd say two reasons. It's not to become a lesser macro economic cyst if I put to work thank you. I'm an earthquake engineer. So I clearly get in the zone. I'm not I'm not familiar with. The. The curriculum for the interdisciplinary PhD is simply if you come in with a bachelor's and no masters 30 semester hours, if you come in with a master's 12 semester hours, everything else is what your committee says you need to do what you need to do, to do your research. That could be digging deep and macro economics. It could be digging deep and macro economics and business innovation, the matter. I mean, it's combining these things. And so I don't see that as not necessarily meeting the needs of a statistics organization. I see it as very much enhancing and a lot of this is. And so that's the advantage of having a flexible curriculum with the interdisciplinary

Speaker 2  22:39  
I'm sorry, is the funding model about $40,000 a year

Speaker 1  22:44  
to fund the PhD student? That's what you're asking it depends how you look at it. If somebody were writing a grant, I'd say they need to be asking probably when you look at overhead and fringe and so forth, probably asking from outside 50 to 60. If a the statements are in your 40 to 50 range, be if you were looking at an industry PhD student. They're paid by their employer. So their employer is paying our agreements have the employers pay a cost of education, which is effectively the tuition so so it depends on where.

Speaker 8  23:27  
Yeah, just speaking from my own experience, I guess was like a nonprofit entrepreneur. I kind of wonder if there's almost a market there as nonprofits are focused on maybe a particular region. And now thinking about this model has worked How do I think about elevating this and the words that systems change happen? Where's that narrative? Change happens? I love it and thinking about where's that transition to greater credibility to your profile, Northeastern and global being a part of that potential opportunity.

Speaker 1  23:58  
being attracted? Yeah. And maybe it's, I think, to get the foothold, like we have the foothold in the pharma sector, right. They get it easy to sell. They, in fact, our best model in the pharma sector, our dual degree dual dual career couples, both in the pharma sectors who change jobs every three to five years with a masa, I can't. Every couple of months, we get a phone call out of the blue from a company that says, heard about this model. We want to sign up. And when we talk, we find out that they're married to somebody at Merck and they just changed us and they wanted to bring it to Sanofi Sanofi. So, I mean that we have that story half a dozen times already. So to be able to get the foothold I think we need a place with the critical mass like Bureau of Statistics or something that can help us get that foothold. But then in the hunt example, or a nonprofit that may not be able to afford a cohort of six may have a piercing problem that could be tackled by tour of a PhD student or team of PhD students. But maybe not stick around for career data, and how does that impact the system

Speaker 8  25:16  
and there may be accelerator programs willing to also sponsor a cohort.

Speaker 3  25:28  
So I want us to think about this first of all for people here in this room who might be candidates for the program. As just something to keep in mind. Absolutely. The second thing is the reason part of this happened this conversation started is because Dana and I attempted to bring in a PhD student for our what we call our impact Studios, which is the work we do on problem solving. And we found I mean, I joke around and say the one criterion you have to have for working on this real world problem solving with us is to not have a PhD because the student we tried to hire you know, we're writing for the real world or to for busy policymakers, funders, decision makers, you know, which means the ability to be brief and do a certain kind of writing that is oriented around impact. And the students couldn't write in than 10 pages. was an existing PhD. Yes, out of which program, we will remain for the moment to be just to be fair, so it was a very traditional sort of, you know, the kind of disjuncture between oh my god, I have to do a live review which is going to take a year and the world we're talking to you, which is where on the horizon you know, the kind of kind of the level of research the level of impact the level of rigor that's required. But it's very different than preparing for a traditional teaching PhD. So yeah, interesting conversation to be had about training people to do a different kinds of work, but that would benefit from an advanced.

Speaker 1  27:02  
Yeah, and I think I've been having conversations with Tom Pacino in the College of social science humanities on particular. I come from the grant game world. And the best thing is, for a PhD students dissertation, to be completely aligned with that is the best of all worlds. And we and that's that's best. And currently, we have a grant from the National Conference. We talked about it briefly. It's about a framework on helping people better research questions, and it's disseminating the framework and the program director at the National Science Foundation wanted to recognize is we don't so step one is rubric. I'll be back to this group. When we get our IRB approval on on using our own testing rubric. I'll be back here with with us to get your input. We're bringing on students from social sciences humanities onto that grant. And I was surprised that there was an expectation to move students around every semester to different grants, it felt very inefficient for it by the time to get up to speed on how am I gonna write that email. He just got onto a different projects, and it's a series of shorter term activities and to be able to have, I recognize having different experiences is important but also being able to have some continuity. And kind of get a grip on it and, and start to see how these things all relate to each other. The situation and so students hear the news, and I know there's a hard stop, but yeah,

Speaker 5  29:02  
I'm just gonna ask the quiet I'm gonna back into this question, but the question is, is it possible to recruit for this interdisciplinary approach from existing PhD? Yes, program. Okay. So the example I have is and I'm making this up, let's say we occurrence are working with the communities in Oakland. And there's an area of West Oakland, Oakland, California, Oakland, California, let's say that's been rezone for an exciting national experimental program to create a community of zero carbon emissions and it's very responsive to community needs, and they want to use the latest data and technology to do it. Wow, this is really excited. Most of the committee's haven't done that. So we then at burners, then go back and say, well, we need an economist near and go to the different PhD programs and trying to recruit from them to pull that team together. To then be part of this program and work in Oakland.

Speaker 1  29:59  
Yes, I would say there's three different a few different ways that you can do that. One is a student as they're approaching their qualifying exams and defining their research might be an opportunity to then say you know, someone from economics Do you have them switch from an economics PhD at that point, if they've reached a qualifying exam, if they've done the bulk of their coursework, and have them transfer into the interdisciplinary Ph. D. program? I don't know. I think we have to be careful that we're not poaching. But do you come in and say, Hey, we're funding the last three years of your PhD and this is the project and it's an open and we're having similar conversation.

Speaker 5  30:41  
Where's your office ball on this position? Yes. Do you have a vested interest in being in the interdisciplinary program are you more than happy to that they can say in economics,

Speaker 1  30:56  
I think the students should be in the program. They should be in the program that that's their research goals. I don't want to try to put one program in front of another I see there's a need for flexibility is looking at right now there might be students I mean, we're talking about this right now and I'm degree program and engineering. Just personally because of their background their master's is in plastic engineering research is now life sciences and so maybe it is a policy and economics and three interdisciplinary or do you want to recruit from outside?

Speaker 5  31:48  
So maybe just another quick sub question to that in that scenario, or do you think there's much tension with the department's if we do more of that over time, like at a certain point, meaning like, the economics and engineering department say, hey, look, I'm talking to our students. When they get to the qualifying exams, you've already gotten a few of them and kind of turned around and more of this experiential. Or you think they're just they're fine with this.

Speaker 1  32:18  
I would think that they would be open to it because you're helping them support their students and buy in by bringing resources in to help the students who go to Oakland, you're also growing their resources because the resources to now bring in larger students so I had an explicit Conversation with Bob ters, about one of our experiential PhD programs that's called it's about putting students

Unknown Speaker  32:51  
to hear with a partner in a

Speaker 1  32:53  
way that complements and they get the leadership certificate at the end. That might be something for Oakland as well. The end he loved it because he saw it as a way to bring in you know, here's a way I can. He's looking at a department I need to fund student for five years. I know what my TA budget is. If I have every student do something experiential, that's a year and you know, I have uncertainty with my research budgets. So right, I would edit out. Obviously, everybody's in different places in there. But I wouldn't, I would like a plus and I think so much of this is an addiction.

Speaker 1  33:40  
Notice that you're afraid? I mean, if you're afraid I think the DOD can tell when you're afraid, right? And they mark so I wouldn't go in and with any other would be a good thing. So until we hear

Speaker 2  33:55  
otherwise. Great. Yeah. And I mean, I can share a little bit of information, I guess, I don't know. It's like public public, but the interdisciplinary median design PhD, basically, in two years, I would say it's completely destabilize the market for design PhDs because the number of people that have applied and are coming. The first year I think their response to 15 and now you're the quality of the applications is astounding, and I have been trying to recruit his resume for 10 years at another institution and the quality of applications that we had the whole admissions process was very rigorous and so because there are so few design PhDs in the country to bring in to listen while we're in one. So yeah, I really think that I don't know how superfine is there's also like, advertising really. So the fact that there's a demand, I think out there I think is Steve

Speaker 1  35:09  
so let me know how I can help. To do something in Oakland. It would be incredible because we were using an application that an idea

Unknown Speaker  35:25  
we're starting to do a lot. So it would be great.

Speaker 1  35:28  
And I had to clarify California because I went to school in Pittsburgh. So there's an Oakland to Pittsburgh. And I Oh, in Michigan as well. I am yeah, I as an undergraduate I did have a double major in civil engineering, engineering and public policy. And I loved it as an undergraduate and three decades later, I appreciate it so much, much more. So the idea of leading a PhD to do something policy oriented to me is exciting. And I would love it to be viewed as doing part of the PhD in policy as opposed to leaving it to do policy and then go back like a sabbatical away, to have it be integrated. Whether you're

Unknown Speaker  36:15  
technical or non technical, it's important.

Unknown Speaker  36:19  
The technology is easy.

Speaker 3  36:22  
So I think we want to feed this into obviously whether it's talent that we identify this creates a potential additional incentive to coming to work here is the opportunity to be also part of a PhD program in parallel. As one thing as you think about this urban lab idea, or we think about specific types of problems we want to work on in the world. The idea of recruiting for working on a problem as opposed to working in a discipline or thinking about the future of impact studios and what that might mean is building talent that is trained in a different way. All of this seems to create a pathway for these conversations. Thank you.

Unknown Speaker  37:15  
I'd love to stay and listen to you can say if we were with Jeff Let's see.

Speaker 3  37:28  
So get some coffee. We're gonna record Jeff I'm going to plug him in

Speaker 6  37:37  
he's gonna be on a computer. We're gonna record Okay, so we can do that.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
